Add ref readonly modifier to performance article (#37492)
dotnet/docs: docs/csharp/advanced-topics/performance/index.md

---
title: Avoid memory allocations and data copies
description: Performance work in .NET means removing allocations from your code. One technique is to change critical data structures from `class` to `struct`. That changes semantics and means more data is being copied. Learn how to minimize allocations while preserving semantics and avoid extra copies.
ms.date: 02/03/2023

> ms.technology: csharp-advanced-concepts

Author: I removed this because it's already set to the same value in the docfx.json file.

In C#, parameters to methods are *passed by value*, and return values are *return by value*. The *value* of the argument is passed to the method. The *value* of the return argument is the return value.

> The `ref`, `in`, `ref readonly` or `out` modifier indicates that parameter is *passed by reference*. The *reference* to the storage location is passed to the method. Adding `ref` to the method signature means the return value is *returned by reference*. The *reference* to the storage location is the return value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `ref`, `in`, `ref readonly`, or `out` modifier indicates that the argument is *passed by reference*. A *reference* to the storage location is passed to the method. Adding `ref` to the method signature means the return value is *returned by reference*. A *reference* to the storage location is the return value.
```

You can work directly with the storage for values using `ref` variables, pass by reference, and ref assignment. Scope rules enforced by the compiler ensure safety when working directly with storage.

> The `ref readonly` and `in` modifiers both indicate that the argument should be passed by reference, and can't be reassigned in the method. The difference is that `ref readonly` indicates the method uses the parameter as a variable. The method might capture the parameter, or it might return the parameter by readonly reference. In those cases, you should use the `ref readonly` modifier. Otherwise, the `in` modifier offers more flexibility. You don't need to add the `in` modifier for an `in` parameter, so you can update existing APIs safely using the `in` modifier. The compiler issues a warning if you don't add either the `ref` or `in` modifier to an argument for a `ref readonly` parameter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `ref readonly` and `in` modifiers both indicate that the argument should be passed by reference and can't be reassigned in the method. The difference is that `ref readonly` indicates that the method uses the parameter as a variable. The method might capture the parameter, or it might return the parameter by readonly reference. In those cases, you should use the `ref readonly` modifier. Otherwise, the `in` modifier offers more flexibility. You don't need to add the `in` modifier to an argument for an `in` parameter, so you can update existing API signatures safely using the `in` modifier. The compiler issues a warning if you don't add either the `ref` or `in` modifier to an argument for a `ref readonly` parameter.
```

| non-ref parameter                     | current method                |
| `ref`, `ref readonly`, `in` parameter | calling method                |
| `out` parameter                       | current method                |
| `class` field                         | calling method                |
| non-ref `struct` field                | current method                |
| `ref` field of `ref struct`           | calling method                |

A variable can be `ref` returned if its *ref safe context* is the calling method. If its *ref safe context* is the current method or a block, `ref` return is disallowed. The following snippet shows two examples. A member field can be accessed from the scope calling a method, so a class or struct field's *ref safe context* is the calling method. The *ref safe context* for a parameter with the `ref`, or `in` modifiers is the entire method. Both can be `ref` returned from a member method:

:::code language="csharp" source="./snippets/ref-safety/EscapeScopes.cs" id="RefSafeToEscapeScopes":::

> [!NOTE]
> When the `ref readonly` or `in` modifier is applied to a parameter, that parameter can be returned by `ref readonly`, not `ref`.

> The compiler ensures that a reference can't escape its *ref safe context*. You can use `ref` parameters, `ref return` and `ref` local variables safely because the compiler detects if you've accidentally written code where a `ref` expression could be accessed when its storage isn't valid.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The compiler ensures that a reference can't escape its *ref safe context*. You can use `ref` parameters, `ref return`, and `ref` local variables safely because the compiler detects if you've accidentally written code where a `ref` expression could be accessed when its storage isn't valid.
```
